From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 93.
Recorded live Thursday, December 3rd, 2009. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Tellerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forums and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdotelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with developers,
Lee Holmes and Jason shirk.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'm
here on campus at Microsoft
in beautiful Redmond, Washington, and
it's actually a pleasant day
to day. And we're in
the commons, which is kind
of the central area of
the Microsoft campus. And I'm
sitting down with Lee Holmes
and Jason shirk. How's it
going, guys? How you doing?
Hey, how's it going? And
you guys work on the
power shell team. Lee, what
do you work on specifically?
I'm a developer on the
PowerShell team and I in
version two, I worked on
eventing and the transactions and
all of the provider infrastructure,
the file system and the
registry. And Jason, what do
you do? I work on
the language, the parser and
the interpreter, and did some
other things like the comment
based help. Now I was,
I was hardcore into PowerShell.
I just thought PowerShell was
the greatest thing. And then
I just, I needed it
less. I use it probably
three or four times a
week, but I wouldn't say
I'm living in it like
I used to. So I
have to admit some ignorance
around PowerShell too. I know
I've got windows seven, so
I have PowerShell automatically, right?
Two O ships with a
seven. Is that right? Yes,
it does. Definitely. And is
this a secret different version
of like two Oh dot
magical something? Something or is
this two Oh two? Oh,
for everybody two. Oh, is
two over everybody. It's the
same on a windows seven
and all the dumb down
level platforms. Okay. So existing
folks that have got it.
Listeners who maybe haven't upgraded
yet. They've got Vista. They
just removed PowerShell and put
it back on or does
it upgrade? They, yeah, they
uninstalled it and then they
download the management windows management
pack. Oh, that's what it's
called. And will their scripts
work with it is the
language is compatible. Yes, it
is backwards compatible. There's a
upfront design criteria to make
sure that all scripts run
in V one and V
two. Okay. So it's everything
still works. Should I should
be able to upgrade without
fear? I think it's the
point. Exactly. Now what about
my applications? I make.net applications
that may be hosted PowerShell
or talk to the, those
actual assemblies and reference them.
Are they going to break?
Yeah, we didn't, we didn't
change the APIs. We added
a whole bunch of new
APIs to make some things
easier, but the, the API
is, and if you want
are still there. Okay, cool.
So PowerShell too. Don't be
afraid. That's what I'm hearing
you say. Exactly. All right.
That's cool. So what kind
of did you add In
the language? Because to be
honest, I and installed every
installed on my Vista machine
and I got it on
my windows seven machine. It's
still a blue background. It's
still a white text. It's
a shell. It doesn't exactly
advertise. It's V Tunis. Exactly.
What's new. So one of
the biggest language features that
we added was the ability
to write something that looks
and behaves like a commandlet,
but to write it in
PowerShell script. So getting all
the power of, of being
able to, you know, operate
on objects that are passed
through the pipe, Like a
command that is like verb,
hyphen noun, like get hyphen
cheese, right. And you would
write a command lit with
a C sharp or VB,
and you'd make it a,
an assembly and you load
it into PowerShell and it
would become part of the
system. And it would be
just the same as the
existing commandlets right. It would
be a peer yes. Of
get process and this and
that. And, and, and you
had to be a C
sharp. And in order to
write a commandlet, now you
can be a scripter and
get the same power and
flexibility that, that commandlet authors
had. And do you one,
you can get that in
vitro, Right? Cause in PowerShell
originally, when I wrote a
script, it felt like a
batch file in the sense
that I would, I would
write a food  and
the way I ran it
would be dot slash .
But when I wanted to
chain things together, and that
was the magic of PowerShell,
right. Being able to change
things in a pipeline, I
could do it, but it
was highly nontrivial, Still not
trivial. You know, the, the
syntax is a little bit
cumbersome, but there's a lot
of power, a lot more
power in V2. Okay. And
I can do this in
notepad. I can just write
this thing in. Okay. Absolutely.
I wouldn't recommend notepad. A
lot of people do use
notepad and in V2, we
added a new feature of
the, the ISE, the integrated
scripting environment. So PowerShell under
bar ISC is a full
featured editor for PowerShell. And
it's designed to make it
easy to develop. And this
includes debugging and watches Debugger
in there. Definitely. So you
can just set break points,
hit, go, and then it'll
stop on your break points.
You have a syntax coloring
the editor, you have a
output pain, so you can
see the results of running
your script. I can run.
Now when I write these,
these command let's because this
new feature, the ability to
write commands with script is
interesting to me, how do
I let PowerShell know about
it? Cause that was one
of the things that was
confusing about commandlets before was
the, there are all of
the ones that PowerShell comes
with out of the box.
And then there are the
five or six or 12
I want to add. Oh
yeah. And if you won,
you had a snap in,
and then there was a
little bit of work to,
to install that and then,
and load it and comparing
that to like having a
script, you have a path
and you just run your
script. That's in the path.
Well, these, the, the V2
script commandlets are just ordinary
scripts. So if you have
a function in your profile
or you dot source of
a script file, and so
you, it adds a function
to your, your environment, then
you just run it like
any other script or other
function. Now you just said,
dot source. Can you explain
to our listeners who may
not be familiar with PowerShell?
What that means? So dot
sourcing is just a way
of, if you run a
script and there's a function
in the script, when the
script exits that function has
gone, if you dot source
the script, then that function
will, will live on after
the script is exited and
you can run the function
later. And what I just
say, dot space.space, and then
the name of the script
and it shows up. Yep.
So I dot source a
commandlet and it becomes available.
Yep. And then I can
say one way to do
it another way, another way
to do it. It's just,
if it's in a script
file,  file. So you
could have get dash my
thing, not P S one.
And if that's in your
path, then it's just automatically,
and I don't have to
refer to the.ps one to
do it. Well, that was
pretty cool. All right. And,
and where's the primary place
people go for this kind
of stuff to go for
or to learn about this?
I go to the PowerShell
blog or they go to
msdn.com/scripting. Yeah. Tech center, tech,
tech, tech, tech, tech techniques,
and MSDN, or to Goodwill
and I, and the PowerShell
blog. Of course there are
a lot of good community
logs. MVPs have a lot
of interesting blogs too. And
what were some of the
other language features that were
added in V2? So, yeah,
script commands was the big
one. We added a try
catch finally. Okay. So for
C sharp developers, that's a,
a little more natural than
the trap from V1. Does
it underlying, does it look
like, does it ultimately kind
of map to a trap?
Not exactly. They're there, they're
fairly close though. Okay. But
the syntax is what I'm
familiar with. The syntax. It's
more, like I said, it's
more familiar trap is you
could put a trap anywhere
in your script and you
know, before or after, and
if there's an error, then
it'll jump to the trap.
It's a little bit more
like a visual basic on
error, sort of a statement,
the try catches scopes. So
the errors have to be
within the tribe block and
then, you know, it'll catch,
okay. Now I can pick
both on air resume, next
style scripting, which you might
be hoping for, for a
scripter and try to catch
with might be more palatable
for a C sharp or
a vb.net developer. Exactly. All
right, cool. Now what kind
of stuff did you work
on Lee? One of the
big improvements I want it
to add on to what
Jason has said is that
PowerShell in, in version two
is we'd like to think
about it as PowerShell version
one that we really wish
we could have finished as
well. So everybody talks about,
Hey, you develop this brand
new shell. I love it.
You came out and said
PowerShell, V1 this time. We
mean it. Yeah. Well, you
know, we, you know, ultimately
you come against scheduling constraints,
you want to get stuff
out there and version one
was an awesome, awesome product.
Well, and you want it
to ship with visual, with
a, wasn't a windows 2003.
When did you, what was
your shift vehicle for V
one? Our initial, our ship
vehicle for version one was
all by itself, But it
shipped in 2008 server though,
right? Yes. Okay. That, wasn't
what drove our ship dates,
but we really wanted to
make sure we had early,
we had a monad and
we had a bunch of
people really excited about it.
And Of course, for the
listeners who may not be
familiar with some of the
buzz words, of course it
was the, the, the term
that we referred to PowerShell
as, before the name power
cell and the icon were
kind of reviewing. Right. Exactly.
That was the codename, right.
This was when they had
dot MSH or dot mush
files, which I thought was
pretty funny. Right. Right. And
then as we got that,
you know, people started using
it. We really wanted to
be able to support remoting
as well. And remoting in
windows has always been kind
of lacking. There's been Telnet
and it kind of added
security upgrades, but nothing really
like the implicit SSH kind
of experience that people just
get to experience ubiquitous remoting.
And one of the huge,
huge things we did right.
In PowerShell version two, was
integrate remoting and in the
unique PowerShell style. And this
is what I want to
understand because I hear people
who aren't PowerShell people talk
about it and they go,
Oh, well, you know, I
already have that. I can
just shush into my machine.
And that's just a remote
secure terminal. Yep. Yep. Can
I do that in power
show? I can just say,
I want to talk to
that machine, but I want
the dos prompt and the
task prompts. So look at
me the PowerShell prompt to
be here. Yeah, no, absolutely.
You can do interactive remoting,
interactive remoting. Okay. And that's,
we'd be ridiculous as a
shell, if we didn't support
that, just like in version
one of PowerShell, we supported
text manipulation, right? That's a
shell. You need to be
able to launch programs and
manipulate it. Is it like
a secure sockets kind of
a thing with search? I
mean, like what's the transport
there? I mean, am I
am really pushing into the
PowerShell or is it something
else PowerShell, remoting builds upon
Ws management. So Ws man
remoting, and that can be
secured, you know, by default
it's going to be windows
authentication inside of your domain.
And so that's encrypted by
a Kerberos, but then you
can also do over SSL
on the internet, tons and
tons of options. And they're
all secure. Now you said
Ws management, that sounds like
Ws start out star and
all the kind of web
services standards. So is that
a standard or is that
a Microsoft thing? Yep. There'll
be less management as a
standard. Okay. And our version,
which is a windows remote
management when around is an
implementation of that standard. Okay.
Okay. So it's something that
sits on top of that.
Yup. Does this mean that
PowerShell can talk to non
windows machines? We go over
this Ws management thing. No.
In addition to the straight
Ws management protocol, there's a
requires that there's an end
point that can speak it
as well. So you have
a, you're connecting to a
PowerShell host on a remote
system and that participates in
the remoting session as well.
So the traditional things supported
in Ws management. Those are
administrative actions, so I can
enumerate things and I can
invoke actions. So on top
of that, we've built the
PowerShell remoting that says, Hey,
create an object and start
streaming things back to me
and create a run space.
And some of the things
that are required in a,
in a full fledged PowerShell
remoting session. Okay. So that
means I'm not doing an
interactive shell, I'm on my
machine with a shell, but
I'm saying I want to
get, have some objects from
that machine and that machine
and that machine all come
over to me and participate
in some kind of a
larger pipeline. It's still interactive,
just like a regular PowerShell.
I'm just saying it's not
interactive in the sense that
the, the C colon backslash
that I'm looking at on
the screen, isn't over there.
It's over here where I'm
at. I guess it's the
same with any protocol is
that your, your server is
going to say, Hey, here's
my prompt. And then the
server implementation is going to
send it on to your,
the person listening for it.
Right. I guess what I'm
trying to understand is that
let's say I've got a
machine, a and machine B
sitting on machine a and
machine B's headless, and that's
got no monitor. I want
to do one of two
things. Let's say the first
example. I want to go
and walk around his file
system. And I want to,
I want to, basically, I
want to shush into that
machine. I want to tell
them Right. That's absolutely what
PowerShell remoting supports. Okay. So
you go into that machine,
you run get processed and
you're getting the processes that
are on that machine right
there. You're getting those files.
Okay. And I've seen them
on machine a yep. And
then scenario a B is
that, let's say, I want
it to go in enumerate
the, I don't know the
hardware's of the certificates on
that machine. Right. It's something
that's very intimate to that
machine. I want it, I
want to see the certificate
store poke around the registry,
but I want to do
it from here so that
I can also poke around
on the registry on my
machine a and maybe do
a diff or do some
comparisons. How would I do
something like that? And is
that the same thing? That's
kind of like the second
way that PowerShell remoting supports.
So you've got your interactive
version, but then there's also
a version that's just mass
automation and we have an
invoke command command. And you
can say, I wanna invoke
this command on a remote
machine. Ah, and then you
can assign the results of
that action and you can
store it in a variable.
That's cool. Hey everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
No doubt. You probably bump
into testing tasks now, and
then, and your work and,
you know, writing functional tests
is probably not your favorite
thing. It's kind of difficult.
It takes time and the
results can be dubious. Well,
get ready to start liking
tests. Thanks to Tellerik with
the, the new whereby testing
framework. Building web automation test
is a breeze. You've got
code automation with advanced asp.net
Ajax and several light applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio unit testing, also
in unit X unit and
MB unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax, and several light, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test. Is it that
politely free Freddie got hooked
on web by testing framework,
start using it right away,
go to tellerik.com for more
info. Thanks a lot. This
is why I like version
version twos of products where
I can code by subtraction,
because with version one, at
my last job, we did
a bunch of big management
of a large number of
systems. You might have 20,
30, 50 machines, and we
have to go talk to
all these machines, but this
wasn't a PowerShell V one
timeframe. So I actually went
and wrote a windows service
that would host an instance
of a PowerShell run space.
And I wrote a poor
man's remoting. And what I
ended up using was your
export CLI XML to export
to a local, you know,
I'm on the remote machine.
I would basically take an
object that I would, and
then serialize it, shuttle it
across and then rehydrate it.
And it was, it was
cheesy to say the least.
And I'm hearing you say
that I can throw all
of that away. Yeah. You
know, PowerShell remoting still builds
on that really core concept
of objects that come back
from a remote machine, aren't
live objects anymore. They're, they're
really rich state bags. And
we do a lot of
work to let you still
use the PowerShell primitive. So
one of the things that
makes PowerShell so great is
that you can do a,
for example, call the get
process command. And that's going
to return a list of
the processes running on your
machine. Now in the plain
text world, you might be
dumping that through arc and
said, and all these things
to get out, how much
memory is this using, right?
But in PowerShell, those are
straight properties on the output.
So then I can do
a filter on, you know,
get process where the processes
handles are more than, you
know, filtering on handle, count
or process IDs. Now our
PowerShell remoting keeps that data
integrity. You run that on
your remote machine and you're
still going to get that
same power in that same
flexibility on every client that
connects to it. And you
can easily fan this stuff
out to thousands of servers.
One of the things that
really drove our design of
remoting in PowerShell V two
was just the fact of
network throttling, where people were
trying to run these huge
WMI operations against their domain,
and that they would time
out. And it would take
so much time because you've
just got this one machinist
becoming the bottleneck, right? And
so in PowerShell remoting, we
implemented throttling limits and stuff.
So you can create this
huge script, say, I want
to run this against a
thousand machines. And then you
can say, well, I want
to be nice. And I
want to do this to
10 machines in a batch.
So we'll go out. And
as soon as we're done
processing one machine, we'll put
in another once you're throttling
basically a limit of 10
machines. Now is that part
of this job management thing
that's added? Is that a
new thing in PowerShell start
job? Yep. Jobs are another
great example of that. And
the remoting kind of builds
on this idea of a
universal code execution model. Okay.
So I have a script
block, you know, a little
chunk of PowerShell command And
a script block is anything
in curly braces that, Yep.
And so I can run
that in my local PowerShell
session, or I can run
that on a remote machine
or I can run that
in a local job. And
they all go through the
same infrastructure. You can wait
on the results of one
of these things you can
read from them. You can
wait for one to complete.
So all those, the same
idea. And then you just
get this, I run this
code and I'm going to
run it wherever I want.
And it's all consistent. And
a script block is a,
is a thing. I mean,
there's like a object called
script block, right. That holds
this stuff. So from a
language perspective, that that script
block is like a molecule
filled with Adams, which is
the abstract syntax tree that
expresses the what's going on.
Yep, exactly. It's so nice
when you interview somebody and
you like, kind of put
something really deep and then
the language designer like, Oh
yeah, that's exactly right. Silence
was that, is that, is
that, I mean, I'm just,
I'm guessing here. That's how
I would do it in
a script block is really
just the script and everything
and everything between the curlies
is just code. But you
part, you, you, you, you
have a parser and then
that sits as an abstract
syntax tree. Right. And then
you go and execute that.
So PowerShell is an interpreted
language, is that partial is
interpreted. Exactly. So what does
this mean in the larger
context of, of dynamic languages
at Microsoft? Because there's all
this interest in the DLR
there's iron Ruby, the giant
Python. There's a lot of
interest in that, but it
doesn't appear that that's something
that's a, like, I don't
know. We, we don't run
around singing to the Hills
about how amazing the DLR
is that dynamic language runtime
that sits on top of
the CLR and in that
PowerShell was, was happening at
the same time as the
DLR was emerging. What does
it mean for PowerShell in
a world where the DLR
may in fact be the
choice? Yeah. The DLR is
very interesting for, for PowerShell.
They, they implement a lot
of co-generation aspects of dynamic
languages, obviously that that PowerShell
can take advantage of. And
it's, it's something that we've
been looking at for prototyping
purposes, just to see what,
what we can do with
it and, and whatnot in
terms of schedules, you know,
it's part of, you know,
different product and, you know,
it's not part of windows.
And so we haven't been
able to take advantage of
it from that perspective. That's
been the biggest factor so
far in talking with the
DLR team. And in the
past, they've been saying, you
know, we'd love you guys
to be using us, but
don't, don't start using us
just yet because we're making
changes and you know, that
sort of stuff. Yeah. So
it sounds like, and correct
me if I'm wrong, that
well, you bringing the DLR
into the world of PowerShell
might be architecturally, tidy, and
might be aesthetically pleasing. It's
not going to do anything
for you other than allow
you to, as I said
before, code by subtraction, you'd
be able to say, Oh,
look, we don't need to
use our AST. We'll use
theirs now. Yeah. That's, that's
one definite benefit. There. There's
some other benefits of, you
know, maybe inter-op with, you
know, C-sharp, since C-sharp will
be using DLR as well,
and that might make some
C-sharp developers lives easier that
they're writing tools for PowerShell,
right? And when you are
in PowerShell, also, you can
call, you can call calm
objects, but you have your
own implementation of doing that
well in the DLR, they
have the notion of this.
What do they call it
in, in the DLR, you
can call Ruby, you can
call calm, you can call
several lights. I forget the
word. I'm going to remember
it. But they also have
call site The generic sense
of call site caching as
well. So then if you
did something inefficient in a
loop, at least they're going
to catch the call site.
This parish will have its
own implementation of things like
that. Those, those optimizations I
call psychiatric. We do a
little bit of that. Not,
not binder. That was the
word, the binding and the
call site caching are two
different things. So yeah, in
the DLR, the binder is
a, a language specific notion
of like, how do you
decide what you're actually going
to call? Right? And then
the caching is the optimization
aspect of that. So that
you don't go in and
rebind, every time you make
that call, you look at
the types of the arguments
and say, Oh, I'm coming
in with the exact same
arguments. I don't need to
go figure out if I'm
calling this again or not.
I know exactly where to
go from from here. And
so partial does a little
bit of the call site
caching. It doesn't do it
in the same way that
it's done in the DLR,
but it does do that
in some places. Yeah. So
it sounds like the dealer
would be a nice to
have, but I mean, should
people, I guess what I'm
trying to understand is that
people who are listening may
be thinking, you know, should
I, should I wait, should
I worry? Should I not
think about a PowerShell yet
until they get their kind
of their, their, their, their
dynamic language story together, or
is PowerShell really more focused
on being a great scripting
automation system and not on
being itself, a full fledged.net
dynamic language, exactly the partials
it was designed for admins
and the fact that it's
a really great scripting language
on top of being able
to do everything for admins
is, you know, in my
mind, just a great bonus.
It does, you know, he
does so much more than
what you'd expect out of,
you know, a shell language.
So in terms of, you
know, waiting or, you know,
anything like that, no, I
mean, it's, it's usable the
way it is. You don't
need to it's baked, right.
I mean, it ships in
what it ships in 2008,
2008, our two chips in
windows seven. Exactly. Exactly. Okay.
Yeah, no, it's a robust
language used by millions of
people. Billions and billions. So
Lee, what are some of
the cools ecosystem type things
you've seen people riding on
top of, like, I remember
the first thing that really
blew my mind in PowerShell.
One was when a guy,
I think we call him
Mo wrote a, What I
can only describe as like
an ANSI art style IntelliSense
in the dos prompt by
basically reflecting over the run
space, looking at all the
objects and then doing some,
a really amazing drawing just
right on the console. But
that was early, early, early
on. I know a couple
of years into it. Now
there must be some crazy
ecosystem stuff built on top
of some PowerShell. Yeah. You
know, I, I think the
ingenuity has been amazing and
absolutely when it comes to
thinking about PowerShell and the
main focus of trying to
make people's lives easier when
you sit and think back
about all of the support
of just managing windows, you
know, that has always been
these cryptic command line tools.
If you were lucky and
people realizing that PowerShell is,
is here to stay, it's
doing great job is making
people's lives better every day.
Now everyone sort of inside
of Microsoft is noticing outside
of Microsoft is noticing there's
tons and tons of features
within Microsoft and companies outside
of Microsoft. They're building PowerShell
commands as their main way
of interacting with our system.
And we've seen entire products
being architected on top of
PowerShell, really, really driving the
gooey separation to the absolutely
next level. One of the
ones that blows me away
is was power gadgets. Is
that what it is? Howard
gadgets? I think that's the
name of the company. Basically,
it's a, I have a
bunch of data, like, like
a bunch of processes get
processes, the perfect example, right.
That you used before you.
So when you go, you
go and say something like,
let's say, get processed pipe,
short VM descending. So I
want all the processes select
first five. So the top
five fat processes in my
system and then power gadgets
is a third party. I
think I'm, I think that's
what it's called. I'm not
affiliated with them in any
way. And you basically say
that script block make me
a gauge that I'll put
in my windows seven sidebar,
my Vista sidebar, and then
just keep updating it All
the time. Yeah. It's amazing.
Just these little one-liner to
command things that take people
at least hours to write
in the regular gadgets framework.
And so that kind of
interaction has been amazing. And
in addition to that sort
of, one of the things
I was saying before is
like entire products where people
talk about, Hey, I have
my business layer and I
have my UI layer. And
so exchange really turned the
world on its head with
their whole new product design
decisions, which is everything is
supported in the command line.
And the richness of PowerShell
lets them actually do that.
If you imagine having an
API that was straight text-based,
it'd be ridiculous. Right. I
want to get the list
of mailboxes and you'd get
back a text file. Right.
And so by supporting, they
wrote all the PowerShell command
list to do that. And
then on top of that,
they wrote their user interface.
It's still a rich, beautiful
user interface, but yet anything
that you can do, you
can also automate and that's
just saved just hundreds and
hundreds of trillions of dollars,
right? So this is exchange
2007 and up is what
happened. And you know, they've
continued to build on that.
Now they're working on a
live version of outlook and
kind of just pushing that
further and further. And yeah,
and that's the kind of
thing. And also there was
this one guy he wrote
robot that was controlled by,
by PowerShell. You could like
tell it to go forward
and rotate. Right. And I
mean, you can, I mean,
as a, as a scripting
language, you could drop PowerShell
into an existing application and
just make it the core
of your scripting. It was
almost like visual basic for
applications. You basically just feed
the sharp or.net objects into
your PowerShell run space and
say, I want PowerShell to
have access to the right.
Although I worry about that
kind of stuff. Isn't that
mean that someone could, could
script format C colon, like
right there? Can I set
up a blacklist if I
don't? I mean, how do
I keep someone from using
my little application? Like, let's
say I write a calculator
and I make it scriptable
and then the guy says,
all right, script, this format
Z colon That comes down
really down to the individual
application. Right. So if you're
writing an application that supports
user generated content and this,
you know, you're going to
have malicious maliciously written on
anything. Right. So you never
know, I've gotta be careful
though. Right? Right. No. And
that's absolutely we support restricted
run spaces, which is a
new feature in version two.
And the idea there is
you can only do as
much in this run space
as you let the person
do. So you're going to,
for sure say in this
restricted version and the really
great way to think about
this is sometimes you want
to let somebody connect to
your machine, but you don't
want to let them run
everything you want to say,
I'm going to give you
four or five commands. I'm
going to let you see
what processes are in my
system, run a couple of
specific WMI queries, but not
kill processes. Right. And so
we've really done a lot
of work in our dev
side of things in version
two, to make those easy
to do so you restrict
down the language so that
nobody's scripting against your system.
You give them a couple
of commands that they can
run, and then you can
be certain that that's all
they're running in your system.
That's cool. You know, one
of the other things that
I really liked early on
about PowerShell and, and I
just actually played with it
a few minutes ago before
you guys got here was
the notion of being able
to say like a right
host or right. Progress bar
where you're basically saying like
in the instance of right
progress bar, is that the
name of the command right.
Progress, right. Progress was to
say that I'm in the
middle of doing something and
I'm going to go and
update it to, you know,
30% or 40%. And then
without thinking, I was switched
back over into the, the
IOC that you'd mentioned before,
adjacently the integrated scripting environment.
And when I hit
five, I see it coming,
a dialogue box popped up.
That was a graphical dialogue
box that looked like a
nice, shiny kind of cool
looking progress bar. And then
I realized like, Oh, it's
in a different host and
it's going to do what's
appropriate for that host. And
I thought that was It's
really cool. And that's one
of the things we've always
tried throughout all of PowerShell
is that for example, you're
right. One of the commandlets
that Jason was talking about
before, or you write a
command, let in a PowerShell
script, right. And we keep
on adding things to the
PowerShell environment in the PowerShell
engine all the time. And
you just keep on getting
new stuff for free. You
know, we, we add a
new feature that says, Hey,
anytime this command that generates
a warning, I want to
take a specific action. When
that happens. Now that didn't
exist in version one, this
is the inventing stuff, right?
No, not really. What is
this then? Because you mentioned
that inventing is new too,
right? Yeah. So that's the
one that you just mentioned
about, I want to, if
something generates a warning, I
want to know we added
a new parameter, for example,
to all command lists in
powerful version two. Oh. And
that's the one I was
talking about was this warning
action where you can take
an action on a warning,
but that's just an example
of any time the engine
gets better than every command
that gets better because these
are what they call ubiquitous
parameters. Is that right? Yep.
And just the whole concept
of just like progress bars
you use, right. Progress in
your command lit, or you
use the script or you
use the, the command that
to call it, then you
get rich output on any
host that supports it. So
really just taking the core
problem of all I want
to do is implement my
command and you deal with
all the user interface and
the parameters and the shortening
and globbing, and aliasing, we
just do an enormous amount
of work on your behalf.
So if I wanted to
write an application and host
PowerShell, I could go and
handle these progress bars for
me. Right? Like if I
wanted it to the progress
bar to appear in the
status bar, I could write
a host, wouldn't be too
hard. There are third party
hosts. There's several of them
that are quite popular power
GUI and PowerShell. Plus both
of those may do things
differently than the console or
the partial ISE. Definitely. Very
cool. Well, I really appreciate
you guys sitting down and
taking the time we're here
in a kind of a
busy area of the common
show. Have you heard people
walking by that's because we're
kind of in a cafe
area here. Thanks so much.
Jason and Lee, for, for
chatting with me today about
PowerShell, you can visit the
PowerShell blog. I think it's
blogs that understand.com/powershell. Also the
scripting center of a technique.
And I'll put a series
of show links with some
of the products that we've
talked about and other resources
for people to look at
again. Thanks gentlemen, for your
time. Thanks for having us.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.